Unfortunately I wasn't able to implement Question 6 due to Question 7 taking so long, which was due to having to search through scattered documentation/function calls 
in the codebase, but I would still like to take the time to describe how I was planning to approach this problem from a theoretical perspective.

My idea centered on changes in four key places: the first is data/events/scripts/player.lua, where I was planning to modify the existing useStamina() function to help
keep track of the player's available Dash uses at any given time, since Dashing too many times in a short timespan leads to the character becoming tired and unable to 
Dash further. In a similar manner to how stamina is tracked in this method based on ticks, I was planning to implement a similar strategy to keep track of the player's 
available dashes.

The second place was Creature::onCreatureMove() and Creature::getStepDuration() in src/creature.cpp. By tracking when the player has a Dash active, similar to the
tracking for teleports, I planned to modify the step duration accordingly so the player would essentially "super-speed" for a short period of time, 
thereby recreating the dash effect. This would also allow us to utilize the server's preexisting pathfinding and obstacle blocking code, 
which covers a lot of potential edge cases with this kind of extremely rapid movement.

A small addition would have to be made in src/tools.cpp, to add the "You can't dash any further." message when the player is out of Dashes.

Finally, to replicate the shaders shown, I believe that the best place for this would be in the data/movements section of Lua scripts, where we could create a new script
to replicate the effect of having several of the player sprites trailing the player as they moved, with slight discoloration. This placement should let us leverage both
the existing infrastructure to render the player sprite behind the actual player, but also to essentially turn that sprite into an "effect" of sorts, similar to a regular
spell effect. This would require a hook of some way from the server to notify the script once the player presses the Dash button, so that we know when to display these 
shaders.

I apologize again for not being able to properly attempt this problem, but I hope this writeup demonstrates the depth of thought I have put into the problem and the solution
I have considered. Thank you for reading and for the opportunity to work with your great team at Tavernlight!